Aspect oriented programing:-
--------------------------------------------------------
AOP breaks the program logic into distinct parts (called concerns). It is used to increase modularity by cross-cutting concerns.

A cross-cutting concern is a concern that can affect the whole application and should be centralized in one location in code as possible, such as transaction management, authentication, logging, security etc.

AOP concepts and terminologies are as follows:
Join point
Advice
Pointcut
Introduction
Target Object
Aspect
Interceptor
AOP Proxy
Weaving

Join point
Join point is any point in your program such as method execution, exception handling, field access etc. Spring supports only method execution join point.

Advice
Advice represents an action taken by an aspect at a particular join point. There are different types of advices:

Before Advice: it executes before a join point.
After Returning Advice: it executes after a joint point completes normally.
After Throwing Advice: it executes if method exits by throwing an exception.
After (finally) Advice: it executes after a join point regardless of join point exit whether normally or exceptional return.
Around Advice: It executes before and after a join point.

Pointcut
It is an expression language of AOP that matches join points.

Target Object
It is the object i.e. being advised by one or more aspects. It is also known as proxied object in spring because Spring AOP is implemented using runtime proxies.

Aspect
It is a class that contains advices, joinpoints etc.

Interceptor
It is an aspect that contains only one advice.

AOP Proxy
It is used to implement aspect contracts, created by AOP framework. It will be a JDK dynamic proxy or CGLIB proxy in spring framework.

Weaving
It is the process of linking aspect with other application types or objects to create an advised object. Weaving can be done at compile time, load time or runtime. Spring AOP performs weaving at runtime.



Aspect means service. we will add aspect to bussiness.
Advice is service provider
PointCut -point or condition to execute the service/Aspect for our bussiness methods.



example:- bank
1)deposite-Transaction before and after
2)withdraw-Transaction before and after
3)findBal-No Transaction
4)calculateInterest-No Transaction

Advicer - pointcut with advice combination
(pointcut+advice)

proxy is a weaver
 proxy <------service + bussiness
finally proxy will give proxy object.

there are 3 approch of AOP
1)programatic
2)declarative(XML)
3)@Anotation

programatic Approch we have 4 advice
1)Method before Advice
2)Method after Advice
3)Method Intersepter(before and after)
4)Throws Advice


controller <--------AOP<-------Service +Bussiness

class Bank
{
int amt=5000;
String name="ABC";
public int deposite(int amt,String name)
{
if(name.equals("ABC"))
{
this.amt=this.amt+deposite;
return this.amt;
}
else
{
return 0;
}}}

---------------------------------
class Logbefore implements MethodBeforeAdvice
{
public void before()
{}
}
-----------------------------
main class:-
{
ProxyFactoryBean pfb=new ProxyFactoryBean();
pfb.setTarget();
pfb.setInterceptorName(String[] name);
Bank b=new Bank();<-----Target
Logbefore l=new Logbefore();<----Advice
Bank proxy=pfb.getObject();//object will return to the bank class.
proxy.deposite(1000,102);
s.o.p(amt)
}
 ---------------
AOP Terminology
Aspect: An aspect is a module that encapsulates advice and pointcuts and provides cross-cutting An application can have any number of aspects. We can implement an aspect using regular class annotated with @Aspect annotation.

Pointcut: A pointcut is an expression that selects one or more join points where advice is executed. We can define pointcuts using expressions or patterns. It uses different kinds of expressions that matched with the join points. In Spring Framework, AspectJ pointcut expression language is used.

Join point: A join point is a point in the application where we apply an AOP aspect. Or it is a specific execution instance of an advice. In AOP, join point can be a method execution, exception handling, changing object variable value, etc.

Advice: The advice is an action that we take either before or after the method execution. The action is a piece of code that invokes during the program execution. There are five types of advices in the Spring AOP framework: before, after, after-returning, after-throwing, and around advice. Advices are taken for a particular join point. We will discuss these advices further in this section.

Target object: An object on which advices are applied, is called the target object. Target objects are always a proxied It means a subclass is created at run time in which the target method is overridden, and advices are included based on their configuration.

Weaving: It is a process of linking aspects with other application types. We can perform weaving at run time, load time, and compile time.

Proxy: It is an object that is created after applying advice to a target object is called proxy. The Spring AOP implements the JDK dynamic proxy to create the proxy classes with target classes and advice invocations. These are called AOP proxy classes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
